“Help!”
No doubt, you have sometime in your life
heard somebody call out “Help!”
Perhaps you yourself
have called out “Help!” to Jehovah.
At Psalm 30:10, David once sang:
“O Jehovah, become my helper.”
Jehovah becomes our Helper
not only when we are in danger.
He provides help in many positive ways
in everyday life.
What help does Jehovah provide for us?
First, find with me
Revelation 14:6.
For one thing, Jehovah provides
his holy angels to support
the worldwide preaching work.
At Revelation 14:6, John recorded:
“And I saw another angel
flying in midheaven,
“and he had everlasting good news to declare
“to those who dwell on the earth,
to every nation and tribe
and tongue and people.”
It is not just one angel that is active
in support of the preaching work.
Many angels are involved in it.
If it were not for the help
and direction of the angels,
we would sometimes overlook
somebody with a good heart
when we go out and preach.
Second, Jehovah has also given
us his holy spirit,
the fruitage of which makes us
more effective teachers
and helps us to draw
sheeplike ones to the truth.
Third, Jehovah has given us
as a help the privilege of prayer.
He gets personally involved
in our activities.
Bible teachers and students alike
need Jehovah’s help.
Psalm 127:1 says:
“Unless Jehovah builds the house,
it is in vain that its builders
work hard on it.”
Fourth, Jehovah gives us
also the needed wisdom.
It is wisdom to pray
for “the wisdom from above”
mentioned at James 3:17.
Last, Jehovah also gives us
the needed strength,
which helps us a lot when we are tired
or discouraged or have a lot of work.
First Peter 4:11 refers
to “the strength that God supplies.”
Yes, we can pray for Jehovah’s help,
for wisdom, and for the necessary strength.
In the following dramatization,
notice the power of praying
in behalf of a Bible student.
“How long would Jesus need to wait
before Jehovah would make him King?”
Good, so “how do we know that Jesus
“did not become King
when he was on earth
or immediately after he was resurrected?”
Oh, uh, because he didn’t.
Well, what did Jesus
teach his disciples to pray?
Oh, um, yep—well, I know the obvious.
“Let your Kingdom come,”
implied future tense.
But how can we know for sure
what’s going on in heaven?
Maybe it would help
if we reviewed the cited scriptures here.
Before you leave, a suggestion:
Maybe if you were to study ahead of time?
I really . . .
How about no.
I’m really swamped.
I know you’re busy; we all are.
You have no clue, do you?
I have to go.
I didn’t know what to do next.
I thought she
was making our study a priority,
but maybe she wasn’t.
Exams next week—it’s do or die time.
Then I remembered 1 Corinthians 3:6
says that ‘God keeps making it grow.’
So I asked him to help Jade
and then left it with him.
Look, I need to apologize.
Forget it, you were stressed.
Yeah, but there’s more.
Inside I knew you were right;
it’s just the last thing I wanted to hear.
Stop, really.
How about I show you how I prepare?
OK.
Yeah?
Yeah.
Thank you, Jehovah.
OK.
How can prayer help us
in making disciples?
Please locate with me
Philippians 1:9, 10.
“And this is what I continue praying,
that your love may abound
“still more and more with accurate knowledge
“and full discernment;
“that you may make sure
of the more important things,
“so that you may be flawless
and not stumbling others
up to the day of Christ.”
Just as Paul prayed
that the love
of the Philippians “may abound
. . . with accurate knowledge
and full discernment,” we can pray
for the same in behalf
of our Bible students.
Pray also for the holy spirit
to guide your thoughts and actions
and the ones of your students.
Pray from your heart,
confident that Jehovah will hear you.
Psalm 65:2 says: “O Hearer of prayer,
to you people of all sorts will come.”
Teach your Bible students how to pray,
not only encourage them to do so.
Urge them to do so!
Learning to pray will help
your students to form
a close friendship with Jehovah.
Pray with your Bible students and for them,
using or spelling out their name.
Be confident that Jehovah
will answer your prayers and theirs.
Please turn to Acts 10:9.
Peter was a fine example
of one who prayed.
Acts 10:9 says:
“The next day as they
were continuing on their journey
“and were approaching the city,
Peter went up to the housetop
about the sixth hour to pray.”
In the same chapter,
Cornelius was also a fine example.
At Acts 10:30, 31,
he reported to Peter:
“Four days ago counting from this hour,
“I was praying in my house at the ninth hour;
“just then a man in bright clothing
stood in front of me
“and said: ‘Cornelius, your prayer
has been favorably heard,
and your gifts of mercy
have been remembered before God.’”
Jehovah answered
Peter’s prayer and Cornelius’ prayer.
Jehovah has given us what we need
to increase our joy in making disciples.
When a report came to John that Jesus
was making many disciples,
John did not become jealous.
At John chapter 3, he replied:
“This joy of mine has been made full.
That one must go on increasing,
but I must go on decreasing.”
When we do not make disciples personally,
we can still rejoice
with those who do make them.
The angels rejoice although they
do not personally make disciples.
At Luke 15:7, Jesus said:
“There will be more joy in heaven
over one sinner who repents
than over 99 righteous ones
who have no need of repentance.”
We also rejoice because we have
the Bible and powerful research tools
in print and electronically
as well as in audio format.
We rejoice because we have
our brotherhood to support and assist us.
We can ask them for suggestions,
and we can invite them to accompany us
in the ministry, even if it is
only by computer tie-in
or telephone witnessing.
If we cannot meet together physically
for a congregation meeting,
we can arrange for tie-ins with others
and hear and see them.
It warms our heart.
Don’t forget the provisions
from Jehovah,
which we mentioned
at the beginning of this talk.
First, we have the privilege of prayer;
second, the help of God’s angels;
third, the support of the holy spirit;
fourth, “the wisdom
from above”; and fifth,
the spiritual and emotional strength
that God supplies.
Jehovah has given us all of this
because he cares about us
and about those we teach.
We will have great joy in the ministry
if we take full advantage
of Jehovah’s help.
Lastly, we want to mention
something very precious
that brings us deep inner joy,
Psalm 25:14:
“Close friendship with Jehovah
belongs to those
who fear him” and pray to him.
May your joyous friendship with Jehovah
—and the joyous friendship
that disciples
have with Jehovah
—last for an eternity!